---
layout: minutes
date: 2020-11-12
title: EPUB 3 Working Group Telco — 2020-12-22
json-ld: |
    {
        "@context": "https://schema.org/",
        "@type": "CreativeWork",
        "url": "https://iherman.github.io/mprocessing_tests/_minutes/2020-12-22-epub",
        "name": "EPUB 3 Working Group Telco — Minutes",
        "about": "EPUB 3 Working Group Telco",
        "dateCreated": "2020-12-22",
        "datePublished": "2020-12-22",
        "genre": "Meeting Minutes",
        "accessMode": "textual",
        "accessModeSufficient": "textual",
        "encodingFormat": "text/html",
        "publisher": {
            "@type": "Organization",
            "name": "World Wide Web Consortium",
            "url": "https://www.w3.org/"
        },
        "inLanguage": "en-US",
        "recordedAt": {
            "@type": "Event",
            "name": "EPUB 3 Working Group Telco",
            "startDate": "2020-12-22",
            "endDate": "2020-12-22",
            "location": {
                "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                "description": "Teleconference"
            },
            "attendee": [
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "chair",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Shinya Takami (高見真也)"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "OrganizationRole",
                    "roleName": "scribe",
                    "attendee": [
                        {
                            "@type": "Person",
                            "name": "Dave Cramer"
                        }
                    ]
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Masakazu Kitahara"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Matthew Chan"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Toshiaki Koike"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Jun’Ichi Yoshii"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Ryo Kuroda"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Naomi Kennedy"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Nellie McKesson"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Másik János"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平)"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Brady Duga"
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Person",
                    "name": "Florian Rivoal"
                }
            ],
            "potentialAction": [
                {
                    "@type": "Action",
                    "location": {
                        "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                        "name": "GitHub repository",
                        "identifier": "iherman/mprocessing_tests"
                    },
                    "identifier": "2020-11-12-action1",
                    "object": "report some wonderful things. (Ivan Herman) ([see details](https://iherman.github.io/mprocessing_tests/_minutes/2020-11-12-epub#action1))\n\nCc: @iherman",
                    "name": "2020-11-12-action1: report some wonderful things. (Ivan Herman)",
                    "agent": {
                        "@type": "Person",
                        "name": "iherman"
                    }
                },
                {
                    "@type": "Action",
                    "location": {
                        "@type": "VirtualLocation",
                        "name": "GitHub repository",
                        "identifier": "iherman/mprocessing_tests"
                    },
                    "identifier": "2020-11-12-action2",
                    "object": "do something very different together with dauwhe. (Ivan Herman) ([see details](https://iherman.github.io/mprocessing_tests/_minutes/2020-11-12-epub#action2))\n\nCc: @iherman",
                    "name": "2020-11-12-action2: do something very different together with dauwhe. (Ivan Herman)",
                    "agent": {
                        "@type": "Person",
                        "name": "iherman"
                    }
                }
            ]
        }
    }

---

# EPUB 3 Working Group Telco — Minutes
{: .no_toc .draft_notice_needed}



**Date:** 2020-12-22

See also the [Agenda](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-epub-wg/2020Nov/0007.html) and the [IRC Log](https://www.w3.org/2020/12/22-epub-irc.txt)

## Attendees
{: .no_toc}
**Present:** Shinya Takami (高見真也), Masakazu Kitahara, Matthew Chan, Toshiaki Koike, Jun’Ichi Yoshii, Ryo Kuroda, Naomi Kennedy, Nellie McKesson, Másik János, Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平), Brady Duga

**Regrets:** 

**Guests:** Dave Cramer, Florian Rivoal

**Chair:** Shinya Takami (高見真也)

**Scribe(s):** Dave Cramer

## Content:
{: .no_toc}

* TOC
{:toc}
---


**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** welcome everyone.  

### 1. align-x-center 
{: #section1}

_See github issue [#1380](https://github.com/iherman/mprocessing_tests/issues/1380)._



**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** this is not supported by major reading systems.  
… and perhaps not very many files use this?.  

> ***Action #1: report some wonderful things. (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action1 .action}

**Toshiaki Koike:** proposed on github.  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/1380#issuecomment-719108924](https://github.com/w3c/epub-specs/issues/1380#issuecomment-719108924).

**Toshiaki Koike:** every reader can implement.  
… this feature is supported by voyager reading system, but not many epub files use this feature.  
… he expects epubcheck would not mark as error.  

**Dave Cramer:** not sure how epubcheck will deal with `<meta>` properties... it actually might be easier.  
… am I correct that people don't really see this as necessary/.  

**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** yes.  

> **Proposed resolution: deprecate `rendition:align-x-center`.** *(Dave Cramer)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Nellie McKesson:* +1.

> *Matthew Chan:* +1.

> *Jun’Ichi Yoshii:* 0.

> *Ryo Kuroda:* 0.

> *Toshiaki Koike:* +1.

> *Masakazu Kitahara:* +1.

> *Shinya Takami (高見真也):* +1.

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1.

> ***Resolution #1: deprecate `rendition:align-x-center` pending confirmation on NA call.***
{: #resolution1 .resolution}

### 2. CSS Writing Modes reference 
{: #section2}

_See github issue [#1389](https://github.com/iherman/mprocessing_tests/issues/1389), [#1390](https://github.com/iherman/mprocessing_tests/issues/1390)._



_See github issue [#1391](https://github.com/iherman/mprocessing_tests/issues/1391)._



**Dave Cramer:** this was done deliberately.  

**Florian Rivoal:** there were several kinds of changes to writing modes between its reference and rec.  
… some are easy to deal with; some less so.  
… from a behaviour change, there hasn't been much, if we ignore the syntax.  
… there is one part which has changed a lot, but it's the detailed, nuanced part.  
… and I doubt that epub readers implemented the correct part.  
… the old behaviour was badly defined.  
… about sizing elements with mixed elements.  
… automatic sizing inside horizontal text inside vertical text, for example.  
… I would be surprised if that was a problem.  
… but there have been syntax changes.  
… we might need to maintain a list of aliases.  
… and just document that.  
… more tricky is that some features have been removed.  
… hopefully they haven't been used.  
… some features were moved to level 4.  
… text-combine-upright: digits was moved from level 3 to level 4.  
… and this one may still change because browsers have not yet implemented.  
… so if you document the syntax in the EPUB spec.  
… and then say for behaviour look to writing modes.  
… the trickier one is the complete removal.  

> *Dave Cramer:* [https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub33/core/#sec-css-prefixed-writing-modes](https://w3c.github.io/epub-specs/epub33/core/#sec-css-prefixed-writing-modes).

**Florian Rivoal:** [makes same points (presumably!) in Japanese].  

> ***Action #2: do something very different together with dauwhe. (Ivan Herman)***
{: #action2 .action}

**Dave Cramer:** so we can just point to the current spec, and identify aliases to current syntax and behaviours.  
… I think there's work for the editors to do to clean up this section, then we can get feedback from the wg.  

**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** that sounds good.  

### 3. Patent Policy.
{: #section3}

**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** w3c released a new patent policy right after this WG was chartered.  
… so we are officially using the old patent policy.  
… but we could switch to the new patent policy.  
… so I invited Florian (from the W3C AB) to explain the new policy.  

**Florian Rivoal:** one main difference between old and new.  
… with the old policy, when you reach CR, you get asked if you have any patents you want to exclude.  
… if you say you won't give a license, then a special group is formed.  
… if you don't answer, or say it's ok, you promise to license them to everyone at no cost.  
… you don't make this promise immediately; only when the spec becomes REC.  
… so there's no license during CR; just a promise for a license later.  
… with the new policy, same thing--you get asked at CR.  
… but if you're OK with the patents at CR, you license them immediately (rather than waiting until REC).  
… another minor difference: when the old policy was written, people imagined that one WG produces one REC, then it's over.  
… they did not consider groups publishing multiple or updated specifications.  
… so there was ambiguity.  

**Dave Cramer:** we have multiple specs. does it make sense to move to the new policy?.  

**Florian Rivoal:** yes. with multiple specs, there is potentially an issue... it would likely work out.  
… the old patent policy is not clear about the same spec going to rec multiple times.  
… especially if some people leave the group.  

> **Proposed resolution: move to the 2020 patent policy.** *(Dave Cramer)*
{: .proposed_resolution}

> *Nellie McKesson:* +1.

> *Matthew Chan:* +1.

> *Jun’Ichi Yoshii:* +1.

> *Shinya Takami (高見真也):* +1.

> *Toshiaki Koike:* +1.

> *Ryo Kuroda:* +1.

> *Masakazu Kitahara:* +1.

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +`1.

> *Daihei Shiohama (塩濱大平):* +1.

> ***Resolution #2: move to the 2020 patent policy.***
{: #resolution2 .resolution}

### 4. unsupported features.
{: #section4}

**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** deprecated features: authors are strongly recommended not to use.  
… reading systems may support.  
… legacy features: authors may include.  
… reading systems must not support.  
… I have a suggestion that we need a third category.  
… where authors are strongly recommended NOT to use.  
… reading systems should support.  

**Dave Cramer:** another factor is epubcheck.  

**Florian Rivoal:** I think I agree.  
… I propose that the third group be called "compatiblity features".  
… maybe for epubcheck a low priority warning.  
… like in verbose mode.  

**Dave Cramer:** there are info alerts in EPUBCheck.  

**Florian Rivoal:** it's also probably useful to say what happens if both properties are used.  

**Dave Cramer:** what about the cascade.  

**Florian Rivoal:** the model also tells what happens from script.  

**Toshiaki Koike:** (in Japanese).  
… with current versions of epub check, when using vendor prefixes, we don't issue any warning or info.  
… should we issue an info only for epub prefixes?.  

**Florian Rivoal:** my opinion is that it is low priority.  
… when we know what unprefixed property should be used question.  

**Dave Cramer:** we're not sure how much we want to enforce restrictions on CSS.  

**Shinya Takami (高見真也):** in conclusion, we will continue to discuss unsupported features. I will file a GitHub issue..  
… and we can continue the discussion there..  

**RRSAgent:** make logs public.  
… make logs public.  
… bye.  

---


### 5. Resolutions
{: #res}

* [Resolution #1](#resolution1): deprecate `rendition:align-x-center` pending confirmation on NA call.
* [Resolution #2](#resolution2): move to the 2020 patent policy.

### 6. Action Items
{: #act}

* [Action #1](#action1): report some wonderful things. (Ivan Herman)
* [Action #2](#action2): do something very different together with dauwhe. (Ivan Herman)

